NAME
	scrock - lock screen with user-defined backend

SYNOPSIS
	scrock [option]

DESCRIPTION
	Locks the X screen with a provided backend application (slock, xtrlock,
	xscreensaver, ...), and performs a few additional actions.

	-h, --help
		display help

	--create-config
		create new sample config in $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/scrock

	-d, --daemon start|stop|status
		start or stop an xautolock process; it may be regarded as a "daemon"
		that locks the screen after a timeout as specified in the configuration
		file

CONFIGURATION
	scrock searches a configuration file in $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/scrock.
	Configuration variables are listed below. The only mandatory variable is
	$SCROCK_CMD; if missing, scrock will abort and return an error. If the file
	is missing, scrock will create a sample configuration file containing all
	variables and short descriptions for them, and exit with an error status.

	$SCROCK_CMD
		The full command line to be executed. Please try not to fork the backend
		application, unless you know what you are doing.
	
	$SCROCK_PID
		scrock will check whether another scrock instance is running (to avoid
		multiple screen lockers running at the same time). It does this by
		creating a PID file, or aborting if the the PID file already exists.

		Set this value to the path where the PID file shall be placed.
	
	$SCROCK_DUNST
		Fullscreen screen lockers don't play nice with notifications by dunst,
		as both will attempt to repaint any area not covered by themselves,
		which results in flickering in the notification window's area (and thus
		increased CPU usage).

		Set this value to 1 to disable dunst while the screen is locked.
	
	$SCROCK_IDLE
		When running scrock with the --daemon switch, the screen will be
		automatically locked after a certain idle time. This requires xautolock
		to be installed on the system.

		Set this value to at least 1 and at most 60.

	$SCROCK_MOUSE
		scrock will attempt to disable the mouse while running the screensaver.
		This is mainly due to i3lock/dunst not playing well together if the
		additionally the mouse is moved while the screen is locked.

		Set this value to '' in order to disable mouse disabling.

	As you may have guessed, the configuration file is simply a shell script
	snippet that will be sourced by scrock at the beginnning of its execution.

EXIT STATUS
	If successful, scrock returns 0. Otherwise, the following return values are
	possible:

	 1: Configuration file is missing and thus created.
	 2: A scrock instance is already running.
	 4: Missing $SCROCK_CMD.
	 8: Errors in command line.
	16: Errors related to xautolock.

BUGS
	In rare occasions the whole mechanism around dunst crashes and makes the CPU
	go up to 100%. This should only happen after disabling the screensaver and
	reenabling dunst (where latter fails).
	In such a case simply kill dunst.

SEE ALSO
	dunst(1), xautolock(1), slock(1), xtrlock(1), xscreensaver(1), i3lock(1)
